---
layout: default
title: 2017-6-20 Open Standards Board Meeting
permalink: /_meetings/2017-6-20-open-standards-meeting
---
## Attendees
Liam Maxwell (LM), Chris Francis (CF), Paul Downey (PD), Matthew Dovey (MD), John Strudwick (JS) (deputising for Nic Harrison), Terence Eden (TE), Lawrence Greenwood (LG), Jonathan Richardson (JR)
On the phone: Dan Appelquist (DA),  Adrian Hepworth (AH)

## Apologies
John Sheridan, Jeni Tennison, Nic Harrison


## Context
To review the purpose of the board and the Open Standards team following the discovery.

## Summary
The recommendation that the Open Standards team act as challenge owners going forward was accepted.

The board felt that Open Standards should be strongly enforced and that the current approach was not effective. [Changes to the Tech Code of Practice](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/technology-code-of-practice/technology-code-of-practice) (TCOP) were requested to make it clear the standards are mandatory.

**1. Introduction  Declarations of interest**

N/A

**2. Presentations and discussions**

2.1 Discovery Findings  - [Full report](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1VL9xzi3Is9UhFP2x14r_1EMpviUTAf7--YlhgBbxgsU/edit#slide=id.g10d42026b8_2_0)

Presented by JR. Discussion and questions throughout.

LM stated he had never been asked to enforce open standards, even though he had offered.

Various board members challenged the wording of the ‘challenge owner’ user need in the presentation, stating that the user was looking to get their challenge ‘mandated’.

LM asked whether open standards were still part of TCOP. The statement in TCOP was shown and discussed. LM suggested removing the word ‘compulsory’ and use the term ‘mandate’ to firm up the message. JS mentioned TCOP is currently undergoing revision. The board asked who would agree TCOP and JS stated it will now be owned by all of government, approved by Tech Leaders and members of industry. DA Stated that the Open Standards board includes members of industry, and should be the method used to interface with industry. LM stated the Digital Economy Council was the way to engage with industry. 

**Action - JS to ensure TCOP includes wording around mandation of standards.**

**Action - JR to provide to JS a list of industry representatives from research, who are interested in Open Standards.**

**Action - LM to invite JS to Digital Economy Council.**

As part of the review of assessment process will include implementation and once a service has gone online.

2.2 	Future of Open Standards 

TE presented the ‘Results of Open Standards discovery’ paper.

LM asked about enforcement. TE explained the team had been investigating reasons for non-compliance, e.g. in the case of ODF. The board felt that ‘naming and shaming’ should be pursued. 

**Action - TE to send LM email from a Cabinet Office official stating they did not know they had to follow Open Standards.**

**Action - TE/LG to send a list of non-compliant departments to JS, who will take the list to Tech Leaders.**

CF stated that enforcement is not in Board’s terms of reference. The board agreed that JS and Nic Harrison, and the Tech Leaders group, should be the first route for enforcement. 

**Action - JS to document a policy on how GDS will enforce open standards and circulate it with the board.**

**Action - TE to add this policy to the Enforcement bullet on ‘Detail of Options’ in the alpha document.**

LM stated that GOV.UK, which is a Cabinet Office function, should be fully compliant.

**Action - JS to mention current GOV.UK state to Tech Leaders at the next meeting. He will monitor this approach over two meetings to discover whether it is effective. If not, new a new process should be proposed.**

The board discussed the Open Standards GitHub. It was stated that the hub was being backed up by the National Archives. The team highlighted a conflict of user need - users are already on  GitHub vs people don’t feel it’s official. AD suggested using GitHub pages to create an introduction page that would be more clearly official. LM suggested monitoring the GitHub on the Performance Platform.

The board returned to the recommendation given in the paper: ‘Results of Open Standards discovery’ paper.

LM asked the board members: what we want is a smoother process - does this meet that need?

PD  wary of “rubber stamping” challenges  without due process, but keen for the team to taking on the role of Challenge Owner. AH highlighted that by using GitHub, the team were reaching a potentially different audience than previously, and that this should be monitored. 

The Board agreed the proposal should be accepted. Progress should be reported back on in further board meetings.

2.3	Discuss the role of the board in setting strategy for open standards

N/A

2.4	Current status of standards in the pipeline.

OCDS V1.1 A new version: The board agreed the profile could be updated version 1.1

**Action - LG to update profile**

Date-time stamp: LM asked whether this was a true open standard, as companies were profiting by it. TE clarified that there were already ISO standards mandated. LM requested this issue be debated on the Open Standard Github. 

Open API - no comments 

Election data - the team explained they were going to pursue this with local election data. The board were content with this proposal. 

2.5 	Demo of the Open Standards video

LM suggested an easier web address be used. 

**Action - LG to share a link when available.**

**3. Committee business**

3.1	Any Other Business - none


